Mololajuwon and her senior

At a particular time, there was a man that had two wives. The senior wife hated the junior and was making every effort to see the end of her junior wife, ëMololajuwoní in their husbandís house. Most especially because ëMolola was very beautiful and was their husband favourite. As soon as ëMolola got married, her parents died. Her parentsí death made her sad in different ways. In the first instance, she was the only child of her parents; she had no other confidant after her parents had died. Secondly, her parents were so poor that they left no inheritance for her except for the debt they incurred which she must make every effort to pay back. When the senior wife realized that there was no one for her again on earth, she was always on her neck and used the opportunity to frustrate her seriously. 

The first thing that the senior wife did after some day that ëMolola's parents died was that, she conspired with an herbalist. She asked the herbalist to tell their husband that each wife should make sacrifice with a cockerel so that their husband would not die and that the husband should not be involved in the buying of the cockerel for any of the wife. When ëMololaí heard it she was sad, she thought of what she could do. After some time she remembered that her mother told her before she died that anytime she was in trouble, she should call her at her grave. When it was five days to the time they would make sacrifice for their husband, ëMololaí went to her motherís grave to call her. As she got there, she cried aloud and said:  
		Narrator:	Yemi o o o o  
				Yemi o o o o 
				Won ni ka fakuko gagara  
				Bori oko   
				Yemi o o o e.

The mother didnít answer the first time, but when it was the third time, the mother answered from afar saying:, 
		Narrator:	Momi o o o o  
				Momi o o o o  
				Orun oja ko o pada wa  
				Momi o o o o e.

On the fifth day ëMololaí got to her motherís grave as early as possible. As she got there,what did she see? A big cockerel that was trapped in a refuse dump was what she saw there. She was so happy because she loved her husband and she didnít want him to die. It was her own cockerel that was used when she got home, because the senior wifeís cockerel was not good at all. The senior wife became more annoyed. As it was a known fact that the envious person would not relent in their wicked effort, the senior wife conspired against her again.

She went to another herbalist, she gave him money and asked him to tell their husband that his wives should use rams to offer sacrifice to his dead father so that his house would not be destroyed. The herbalist also warned the husband as the first herbalist, that he should not be involved in the buying of the rams that the wives would use for the sacrifice. Since it was another herbalist that said it, the husband believed. According to the herbalist, only one ram was supposed to be used but because there was no love between the wives, each of them should buy their rams.

ëMololaí thought of not going to her motherís grave so that it would not look as if her disturbance was much because she thought that if she had a bigger problem her mother would not answer again. When she had thought for a long time and she could not get an alternative, she went to her motherís grave to called her.

Her mother answered her as she did at the first time she called. Her mother promised her to come after five days. ëMololaí returned home with joy. When she got home the senior wife made jest of her saying; ëwe would see where the useless person would get money to buy ramí. ëMaybe she would steal it like she stole cockerel the other dayí. ëMolola refused to answer. When it remained a day that the sacrifice would be done and ëMolola had not got her ram, the senior wife abused her severally that she could hardly stay in the house. But, as the day broke on the second day, ëMololaí had gone to the graveyard. She met a big ram when she got there. She took the ram and entered the house through the back door.

When the herbalist came, the two wives brought out their rams. It was ëMololaís ram that was used because, it was better. The shame on the senior wife was much that it could not be quantified that day. After they had finished what they had to do, when they got home, the senior wife of ëMololaí would not allow her to rest. She abused her in different ways. Any way she went she would call her ëram thiefí it was only God that knew where she had got a ram again. "Police would soon come and arrest youí ëMololajuwoní did not answer.

When the senior wife was frustrated, she thought of a way to trap ëMololaí that she would not be able to escape. In the town the wealthy people usually go to the kingís palace to show to the entire town the extent of their wealth. On the chosen day, they would show their wealth to the people and later they would feed the whole town. Without telling ëMololaí the senior wife went to meet the king and told him that in five days they would like to show their wealth to the people in the town.
The king asked her whether her junior had agreed to it, the senior wife said it was the junior wife that brought the suggestion. The king reminded the senior wife of the kind of punishment that would be meted to whosoever was not able to fulfill the promise made. Anyone that was not able to fulfill the promise would be sent to exile. She told the king that she had explained everything to her junior before she asked her to go and tell the king.

She told the junior wife when she got home because she had not told her anything before.When the junior wife heard what the senior wife had told the king, she was afraid, because she did not have money to buy expensive things to array herself let alone to feed the entire people in the town. She did not know what to do because the senior wife did not even allow her to get close to their husband for her to tell him what she wanted. After she had thought for a long time she decided to go to her motherís graveyard. Before she got there, she thought about many things. She thought whether such a task would be easy for her mother. One can agree that a ghost would get cockerel and ram but where would a ghost get expensive jewelries and food? Finally she accepted her fate. She went to call her mother. When her mother answered her, she explained everything to her. Her mother asked her to go, that she should come back very early on the fifth day.

Early in the morning on the fifth day, ëMololaí had taken her bath; she had gone to the graveyard of her mother. Before she got to the graveyard, she was hearing song with her name.  
		Narrator: 	Mololajuwon  
		Audience: 	Jingin-n-jingin 
		Narrator: 	Mo laso ju won  
		Audience: 	Jingin-n-jingin 
		Narrator: 	Mo lowo ju won  
		Audience: 	Jingin-n-jingin 
		Narrator: 	Mo lomo ju won  
		Audience: 	Jingin-n-jingin   
		Narrator: 	Mo lohun rere ju gbogbo won  
		Audience: 	Jingin-n-jingin

As she got to the graveyard she almost ran back except they were singing with her name. Loads were many, yet there were different kinds of food and many servants. As the servants saw her, they took her somewhere and wore expensive clothes for her and decorated her with make ups. As was mentioned earlier, ëMololaí was a very beautiful woman, more so after she had been decorated. The servants carried the food and boxes of jewelries, and went to the kingís palace with drums, singing and dancing. The senior wife had got to the palace of the king before ëMololaí got to the palace. As ëMololaíappeared with drums and dancing, her senior almost entered the ground. Later, the king called for them, that they should come and show their wealth. The senior wife was called but she said the younger person must open her loads first.

ëMololaí moved to her luggage and started to open them. After a long time that she had been showing her wealth, the king and the people said it was enough that he had excelled. When it was the turn of the senior wife, she had only two boxes, it did not take her up to five minutes before she finished the showing. The clothes and the jewelries were not even attractive. The people shouted at her and the shame was so much for her. She didnít even wait to feed the people before she ran away. ëMololaí was the one who fed the people that day. She went back to her husbandís house with joy, the husband then became hers alone because the senior wife had left the town because of shame.

The story taught us different lessons. In the first instance, it taught us not to belittle anyone. Secondly, that we should not look for the downfall of another person, so that one would not meet his own downfall. That was how it all ended.